Let's talk about Agile Software development from the perspective of the Product Owner Here's Pat, she is a Product Owner. She has a product vision that she is really passionate about She doesn't know the details of what our product is going to do, but she knows why we are building the product What problem it's gonna solve, and for who She talks about all the time. Here are the stakeholders They are the people who are going to use and support or in any way be affected by the system being developed. Pat's vision is that these people here will love our system and use it all the time and tell their friends about it. The stakeholders needs and Pat's ideas are expressed as user stories, here. For example if this is was flight booking system people need to be able to search for a
flight, and maybe that would be one user story Both Pat and the stakeholders
have lots of ideas so Pat helps turn these into concrete user stories Now, somebody has actually to build the system. So here they are. a small, co-located, cross-functional self-organizing development team Since this is an agile team they don’t save up for a big bang release at the end. Instead, they release early and often. In this case, they usually release 4-6 stories per week, So that is their capacity Capacity is easy to measure. Just count the number of stories released per week Some stories are big, so they can count as two. Some are small and count as a half but on all, that adds up to about four six stories per week Some people call this story points but I'm just gonna call them stories per week. In order to maintain this pace and not get bogged down by manual regression testing, the team invests heavily in automated testing and continuous integration, so every story has at least one
automated acceptance test at feature level and most of the code has automated unit tests. The problem is, here are bunch of stakeholders asking for all kinds of stuff and they sure aren’t going to be limited to 4-6 ideas per week. They have LOTS of ideas and LOTS of wishes. And every time we deliver something to them, they will get even more ideas and ask for even more stuff. So what happens if we try to please them, try to do everything they ask for ? will get overflow! Suppose the team starts working at 10 user stories per week. If the input is 10 and the output is 4 to 6, the team will get overloaded That will cause multitasking, demotivation and all kinds of bad stuff, and ultimately a lower output and lower quality It's a lose-lose proposition. It´s kind like trying to shove more paper into a printer to make it print faster, or shoving more cars onto an already crammed highway system. it just doesn't work. It just makes things worse. So, what do we do about this? The Scrum and XP way of avoiding this problem is called "Yesterday's Weather" The team says: "well, the past few weeks we've finished 4 to 6 features per week so, which 4 to 6 features shall we build this week? And the product owner job is to figure out of all possible stories in the whole universe which 4 to 6 stories shall we deliver next. The Kanban way is to limit Work In Progress or limit WIP Suppose the team decides that 5 is a optimum number of stories to be worked out simultaneously They've learned that is just enough to keep everybody busy without causing an overload so they decided that 5 is their wip limit whenever they finish one story they will accept one user story thereby making sure that they never break the limit of five ongoing stories both of these approach work fine in the sense that the team will have just enough work to do and they'll be working fast and affectively a side effect though is that there will be a queue forming in front of the team and that queue in Scrum is called the Product Backlog the queue needs to be managed suppose stakeholders keep asking for ten user stories every week and the team deliver four to six stories every week that means the queue will just get longer and longer so, before you know it, you have six month long of wish list in the backlog, and growing that means that on average, every story that team deliver is something that somebody asked for six months ago how agile is that? so there's really only one way to stop the queue from getting out of control that word is "NO" it is the most important word for Product Owner and Pat practices it every day in front of the mirror saying yes to a new feature request is easy especially if it only means adding it to an ever growing backlog the most important job of the product owner is decide what NOT to build and taking the consequences of that decision and that's why it's hard, of course the Product Owner decides what goes in and what goes out the Product Owner also decides the sequencing what to build now, what to build later and how long does this list actually need to be that's a hard job so Pat doesn't do it alone she does it in collaboration with the team and the stakeholders to be able to prioritize the Product Owner must have some idea of the value of each story as well as the size. Some stores are critically important others are just bonus features Some stories take just a few hours to build and others take months Now guess what the correlation is between story value and story size. That's right! None! bigger doesn't mean better Think any system that you used and I bet you can think of at least one really simple feature that is very important, that you use every day and I bet you can think of at least one huge complicated feature that is totally unimportant value and size is what helps Pat prioritize intelligently like here, these stories are roughly the same size but a different value so build this one first and over here these two stories have roughly the same value but different size so build this one first, and so on ok that's sound easy enough but wait a second how does she know the value of the story and how does she know the size? well here's the bad news, she doesn't it's a guessing game and it's a game that everyone is involved in Pat continuously talk to stakeholders to find out what they value and she continuously talk to the team to find out what they think is big or small in terms of implementation effort these are relative guesses, not absolute numbers i don't know what this apple weighs or that strawberry but i'm pretty sure that the apple weighs at least five times as much and that the strawberry taste better to me at least. And that's all Pat needs to know in order to prioritize the backlog pretty cool that way At the beginning of a new project our guesses well inevitably suck but that's ok, the biggest value is really in the conversations rather than the actual numbers and every time the team delivers something to real users we learn something and get better at guessing both value and size that way we continuously prioritize and estimate Trying to get it all right from the beginning is pretty dumb because that's when we know the least so the feedback loop is your friend Prioritization is not enough though in order to deliver early and often you need to break stories down into bite sized pieces preferably just a few days of work per story we want this nice funnel shape with small clear stories at the front and more vague stories at the back by doing this breakdown in a just-in-time fashion we can take advantage of our latest insights about the product and user needs all the stuff I'm talking about, estimating the value and size of stories, prioritizing, splitting all that it is usually called "backlog grooming" Pat runs a Backlog Grooming workshop every Wednesday from eleven to twelve one hour per week, the whole team is usually there and sometimes a few stakeholders as well the agenda varies a bit but sometimes that focuses on estimation, sometimes on splitting stories sometimes on writing acceptance criteria for a story, etc so i hope you're noticing the theme here: communication product ownership is really all about communication when I ask experienced product owners what it takes to succeed They usually emphasize passion and communication so it's no coincidence that the first principle of the agile manifesto is individuals and interactions over processes and tools so the Product Owner's job is not to spoon feed team with stories, that's boring and ineffective Pat instead make sure everybody understands the Vision that the team is in direct contact with stakeholders and that there is short feedback loop in terms of frequent deliveries to real users that way team learns and can make daily trade off decisions on their own, so Pat can focus on the big picture let's take a look at a few of the trade-offs that need to be made by Pat and the Team first of all there's a tradeoff between different types of value early on on the project uncertainty and risk is our enemy, there's business risk are we building the right thing there're social risk, can these people build it, and there's technical risk will it work on the platform that we want to run it on, will it scale and there's cost and schedule risk can we finish the product in a reasonable am
