Scrum Definition
Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps people, teams and organizations generate value through
adaptive solutions for complex problems.
In a nutshell, Scrum requires a Scrum Master to foster an environment where:
1. A Product Owner orders the work for a complex problem into a Product Backlog.
2. The Scrum Team turns a selection of the work into an Increment of value during a Sprint.
3. The Scrum Team and its stakeholders inspect the results and adjust for the next Sprint.
4. Repeat
Scrum is simple. Try it as is and determine if its philosophy, theory, and structure help to achieve goals
and create value. The Scrum framework is purposefully incomplete, only defining the parts required to
implement Scrum theory. Scrum is built upon by the collective intelligence of the people using it. Rather
than provide people with detailed instructions, the rules of Scrum guide their relationships and
interactions.
Various processes, techniques and methods can be employed within the framework. Scrum wraps
around existing practices or renders them unnecessary. Scrum makes visible the relative efficacy of
current management, environment, and work techniques, so that improvements can be made.
Scrum Theory
Scrum is founded on empiricism and lean thinking. Empiricism asserts that knowledge comes from
experience and making decisions based on what is observed. Lean thinking reduces waste and focuses
on the essentials.
Scrum employs an iterative, incremental approach to optimize predictability and to control risk. Scrum
engages groups of people who collectively have all the skills and expertise to do the work and share or
acquire such skills as needed.
Scrum combines four formal events for inspection and adaptation within a containing event, the Sprint.
These events work because they implement the empirical Scrum pillars of transparency, inspection, and
adaptation.
Transparency
The emergent process and work must be visible to those performing the work as well as those receiving
the work. With Scrum, important decisions are based on the perceived state of its three formal artifacts.
Artifacts that have low transparency can lead to decisions that diminish value and increase risk.
3
Transparency enables inspection. Inspection without transparency is misleading and wasteful.
Inspection
The Scrum artifacts and the progress toward agreed goals must be inspected frequently and diligently to
detect potentially undesirable variances or problems. To help with inspection, Scrum provides cadence
in the form of its five events.
Inspection enables adaptation. Inspection without adaptation is considered pointless. Scrum events are
designed to provoke change.
Adaptation
If any aspects of a process deviate outside acceptable limits or if the resulting product is unacceptable,
the process being applied or the materials being produced must be adjusted. The adjustment must be
made as soon as possible to minimize further deviation.
Adaptation becomes more difficult when the people involved are not empowered or self-managing. A
Scrum Team is expected to adapt the moment it learns anything new through inspection.
Scrum Values
Successful use of Scrum depends on people becoming more proficient in living five values:
Commitment, Focus, Openness, Respect, and Courage
The Scrum Team commits to achieving its goals and to supporting each other. Their primary focus is on
the work of the Sprint to make the best possible progress toward these goals. The Scrum Team and its
stakeholders are open about the work and the challenges. Scrum Team members respect each other to
be capable, independent people, and are respected as such by the people with whom they work. The
Scrum Team members have the courage to do the right thing, to work on tough problems.
These values give direction to the Scrum Team with regard to their work, actions, and behavior. The
decisions that are made, the steps taken, and the way Scrum is used should reinforce these values, not
diminish or undermine them. The Scrum Team members learn and explore the values as they work with
the Scrum events and artifacts. When these values are embodied by the Scrum Team and the people
they work with, the empirical Scrum pillars of transparency, inspection, and adaptation come to life
building trust.
4
Scrum Team
The fundamental unit of Scrum is a small team of people, a Scrum Team. The Scrum Team consists of
one Scrum Master, one Product Owner, and Developers. Within a Scrum Team, there are no sub-teams
or hierarchies. It is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at a time, the Product Goal.
Scrum Teams are cross-functional, meaning the members have all the skills necessary to create value
each Sprint. They are also self-managing, meaning they internally decide who does what, when, and
how.
The Scrum Team is small enough to remain nimble and large enough to complete significant work within
a Sprint, typically 10 or fewer people. In general, we have found that smaller teams communicate better
and are more productive. If Scrum Teams become too large, they should consider reorganizing into
multiple cohesive Scrum Teams, each focused on the same product. Therefore, they should share the
same Product Goal, Product Backlog, and Product Owner.
The Scrum Team is responsible for all product-related activities from stakeholder collaboration,
verification, maintenance, operation, experimentation, research and development, and anything else
that might be required. They are structured and empowered by the organization to manage their own
work. Working in Sprints at a sustainable pace improves the Scrum Team’s focus and consistency.
The entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating a valuable, useful Increment every Sprint. Scrum
defines three specific accountabilities within the Scrum Team: the Developers, the Product Owner, and
the Scrum Master.

EBM Helps Organizations Seek toward Their Goals
in a Complex World Using Empiricism
Complex problems defy easy solutions, but instead require organizations seek toward their
goals in a series of small steps, inspecting the results of each step, and adapting their next
actions based on feedback (see Figure 1).1
This model has several key elements:
A Strategic Goal, which is something important that the organization would like to achieve.
This goal is so big and far away, with many uncertainties along the journey that the
organization must use empiricism. Because the Strategic Goal is aspirational and the
path to it is uncertain, the organization needs a series of practical targets, like
Intermediate Goals, achievements of which will indicate that the organization is on the path
to its Strategic Goal. The path to the Intermediate Goal is often still somewhat uncertain,
but not completely unknown.
Immediate Tactical Goals, critical near-term objectives toward which a team or group of
teams will work help toward Intermediate Goals.
A Starting State, which is where the organization is relative to the Strategic Goal when it
starts its journey.
A Current State, which is where the organization is relative to the Strategic Goal at the
present time.
In order to progress toward the Strategic Goal, organizations run experiments which involve
forming hypotheses that are intended to advance the organization toward their current
Intermediate Goal. As they run these experiments and gather results, they use the evidence
they obtain to evaluate their goals and determine their next steps to advance toward these
goals.
1For more on complexity, see the Scrum Theory section of the Scrum Guide at
https://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html
3
Figure 1: Reaching strategic goals requires experimenting, inspecting, and adapting2
Setting Goals
When setting goals, organizations must define specific measures that will indicate that the goal
is achieved. Goals, measures, and experiments should be made transparent in order to
encourage organizational alignment.
Consider the case of the response to an infectious disease:
● The Strategic Goal is to eradicate the effects of the disease, as measured by the
number of people who fall ill and suffer significant illness. Measurement is
important; in this example, the goal is focused on the effects of the disease, and
not on the means for achieving the desired impact. For example, the goal is not
to vaccinate a certain percentage of the population against the disease; that may
be an activity necessary to achieving the Strategic Goal, but it is not the Strategic
Goal.
2Figure adapted from Mike Rother’s Improvement Kata (http://www
personal.umich.edu/~mrother/The_Improvement_Kata.html)
4
● An example of an Intermediate Goal is the successful completion of a trial of a
vaccine against the disease. This is still ambitious and measurable, and
achieving it may require the completion of many different activities, but it is seen
as a necessary step on the path to achieving the Strategic Goal.
● Examples of immediate tactical goals may include activities like isolating
symptoms, evaluating a therapy, sequencing the DNA of a virus or bacterium,
and so forth.
The Strategic Goal is usually focused on achieving a highly desirable but unrealized outcome
for a specific group of people that results in improved happiness, safety, security, or well-being
of the recipients of some product or service. In EBM, we refer to this as Unrealized Value, which
is the satisfaction gap between a beneficiary’s desired outcome and their current experience.
Unrealized Value is described in greater detail below, in the Key Value Areas section.
Understanding What Is Valuable
Organizations measure many different kinds of things. Broadly speaking, measures fall into
three categories:
● Activities. These are things that people in the organization do, such as perform work,
go to meetings, have discussions, write code, create reports, attend conferences, and so
forth.
● Outputs. These are things that the organization produces, such as product releases
(including features), reports, defect reports, product reviews, and so on.
● Outcomes. These are desirable things that a customer or user of a product
experiences. They represent some new or improved capability that the customer or user
was not able to achieve before.  Examples include being able to travel to a destination
faster than before, or being able to earn or save more money than before.  Outcomes
can also be negative, as in the case where the value a customer or user experiences
declines from previous experiences, for example when a service they previously relied
upon is no longer available.
The problem most organizations face, which is often reflected in the things they measure, is that
measuring activities and outputs is easy, while measuring outcomes is difficult. Organizations
may gather a lot of data with insufficient information about their ability to deliver value. However,
delivering valuable outcomes to customers is essential if organizations are to reach their goals.
For example, working more hours (activities) and delivering more features (outputs) does not
necessarily lead to improved customer experiences (outcomes).
EBM Focuses on Four Key Value Areas
In addition to using hypotheses and experiments to move toward goals, EBM provides a set of
perspectives on value and the organization’s ability to deliver value. These perspectives are
called Key Value Areas (KVAs). These areas examine the goals of the organization (Unrealized
Value), the current state of the organization relative to those goals (Current Value), the
5
responsiveness of the organization in delivering value (Time-to-Market), and the effectiveness
of the organization in delivering value (Ability-to-Innovate). Focusing on these four dimensions
enables organizations to better understand where they are and where they need to go (see
Figure 2).
Figure 2: EBM focuses on four Key Value Areas (KVAs).
Each KVA focuses on a different aspect of either value, or the ability of the organization to
deliver value. Delivering business value (Current Value) is important, but organizations must
also show that they can respond to change (Time-to-Market) while being able to sustain
innovation over time (Ability-to-Innovate). And they must be able to continually make progress
toward their long-term goals (Unrealized Value) or they risk succumbing to stagnation and
complacency.
Example Key Value Measures (KVMs) for each KVA are described in the Appendix.
Current Value (CV)
The value that the product delivers today
The purpose of looking at CV is to understand the value that an organization delivers to
customers and stakeholders at the present time; it considers only what exists right now, not the
value that might exist in the future. Questions that organizations need to continually re-evaluate
for current value are:
1. How happy are users and customers today? Is their happiness improving or declining?
6
2. How happy are your employees today? Is their happiness improving or declining?
3. How happy are your investors and other stakeholders today? Is their happiness
improving or declining?
Considering CV helps an organization understand the value that their customers or users
experience today.
Example: While profit, one way to measure investor happiness, will tell you the
economic impact of the value that you deliver, knowing whether customers are happy
with their purchase will tell you more about where you may need to improve to keep
those customers. If your customers have few alternatives to your product, you may have
high profit even though customer satisfaction is low. Considering CV from several
perspectives will give you a better understanding of your challenges and opportunities.
Customer happiness and investor happiness also do not tell the whole story about your
ability to deliver value. Considering employee attitudes recognizes that employees are
ultimately the producers of value. Engaged employees that know how to maintain,
sustain and enhance the product are one of the most significant assets of an
organization, and happy employees are more engaged and productive.
Unrealized Value (UV)
The potential future value that could be realized if the organization met the
needs of all potential customers or users
Looking at Unrealized Value helps an organization to maximize the value that it realizes from a
product or service over time. When customers, users, or clients experience a gap between their
current experience and the experience that they would like to have, the difference between the
two represents an opportunity; this opportunity is measured by Unrealized Value.
Questions that organizations need to continually re-evaluate for UV are:
1. Can any additional value be created by our organization in this market or other markets?
2. Is it worth the effort and risk to pursue these untapped opportunities?
3. Should further investments be made to capture additional Unrealized Value?
The consideration of both CV and UV provides organizations with a way to balance present and
possible future benefits. Strategic Goals are formed from some satisfaction gap and an
opportunity for an organization to decrease UV by increasing CV.
Example: A product may have low CV, because it is an early version being used to test
the market, but very high UV, indicating that there is great market potential. Investing in
the product to try to boost CV is probably warranted, given the potential returns, even
though the product is not currently producing high CV.
7
Conversely, a product with very high CV, large market share, no near competitors, and
very satisfied customers may not warrant much new investment; this is the classic cash
cow product that is very profitable but nearing the end of its product investment cycle
with low UV.

The Sprint
A Sprint in Nexus is the same as in Scrum. The Scrum Teams in a Nexus produce a single Integrated
Increment.
Cross-Team Refinement
Cross-Team Refinement of the Product Backlog reduces or eliminates cross-team dependencies within a
Nexus. The Product Backlog must be decomposed so that dependencies are transparent, identified
across teams, and removed or minimized. Product Backlog items pass through different levels of
decomposition from very large and vague requests to actionable work that a single Scrum Team could
deliver inside a Sprint.
Cross-Team Refinement of the Product Backlog at scale serves a dual purpose:
• It helps the Scrum Teams forecast which team will deliver which Product Backlog items.
• It identifies dependencies across those teams.
Cross-Team Refinement is ongoing. The frequency, duration, and attendance of Cross-Team Refinement
varies to optimize these two purposes.
Where needed, each Scrum Team will continue their own refinement in order for the Product Backlog
items to be ready for selection in a Nexus Sprint Planning event. An adequately refined Product Backlog
will minimize the emergence of new dependencies during Nexus Sprint Planning.
Nexus Sprint Planning
The purpose of Nexus Sprint Planning is to coordinate the activities of all Scrum Teams within a Nexus
for a single Sprint. Appropriate representatives from each Scrum Team and the Product Owner meet to
plan the Sprint.
The result of Nexus Sprint Planning is:
● a Nexus Sprint Goal that aligns with the Product Goal and describes the purpose that will be
achieved by the Nexus during the Sprint
● a Sprint Goal for each Scrum Team that aligns with the Nexus Sprint Goal
● a single Nexus Sprint Backlog that represents the work of the Nexus toward the Nexus Sprint
Goal and makes cross-team dependencies transparent
● A Sprint Backlog for each Scrum Team, which makes transparent the work they will do in
support of the Nexus Sprint Goal
© 2021 Scrum.org. Offered for license under the Offered for license under the Attribution Share Alike license of Creative
Commons, accessible at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode and also described in summary form at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/. By utilizing this Nexus Guide, you acknowledge and agree that you have
read and agree to be bound by the terms of the Attribution Share-Alike license of Creative Commons.
7
Nexus Daily Scrum
The purpose of the Nexus Daily Scrum is to identify any integration issues and inspect progress toward
the Nexus Sprint Goal. Appropriate representatives from the Scrum Teams attend the Nexus Daily
Scrum, inspect the current state of the integrated Increment, and identify integration issues and newly
discovered cross-team dependencies or impacts. Each Scrum Team’s Daily Scrum complements the
Nexus Daily Scrum by creating plans for the day, focused primarily on addressing the integration issues
raised during the Nexus Daily Scrum.
The Nexus Daily Scrum is not the only time Scrum Teams in the Nexus are allowed to adjust their plan.
Cross-team communication can occur throughout the day for more detailed discussions about adapting
or re-planning the rest of the Sprint’s work.
Nexus Sprint Review
The Nexus Sprint Review is held at the end of the Sprint to provide feedback on the done Integrated
Increment that the Nexus has built over the Sprint and determine future adaptations.
Since the entire Integrated Increment is the focus for capturing feedback from stakeholders, a Nexus
Sprint Review replaces individual Scrum Team Sprint Reviews. During the event, the Nexus presents the
results of their work to key stakeholders and progress toward the Product Goal is discussed, although it
may not be possible to show all completed work in detail. Based on this information, attendees
collaborate on what the Nexus should do to address the feedback. The Product Backlog may be adjusted
to reflect these discussions.
Nexus Sprint Retrospective
The purpose of the Nexus Sprint Retrospective is to plan ways to increase quality and effectiveness
across the whole Nexus. The Nexus inspects how the last Sprint went with regards to individuals, teams,
interactions, processes, tools, and its Definition of Done. In addition to individual team improvements,
the Scrum Teams’ Sprint Retrospectives complement the Nexus Sprint Retrospective by using bottom-up
intelligence to focus on issues that affect the Nexus as a whole.
The Nexus Sprint Retrospective concludes the Sprint.
Nexus Artifacts and Commitments
Artifacts represent work or value, and are designed to maximize transparency, as described in the Scrum
Guide. The Nexus Integration Team works with the Scrum Teams within a Nexus to ensure that
transparency is achieved across all artifacts and that the state of the Integrated Increment is widely
understood.
Nexus extends Scrum with the following artifacts, and each artifact contains a commitment, as indicated
below. These commitments exist to reinforce empiricism and the Scrum value for the Nexus and its
stakeholders.
© 2021 Scrum.org. Offered for license under the Offered for license under the Attribution Share Alike license of Creative
Commons, accessible at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode and also described in summary form at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/. By utilizing this Nexus Guide, you acknowledge and agree that you have
read and agree to be bound by the terms of the Attribution Share-Alike license of Creative Commons.
8
Product Backlog
There is a single Product Backlog that contains a list of what is needed to improve the product for the
entire Nexus and all of its Scrum Teams. At scale, the Product Backlog must be understood at a level
where dependencies can be detected and minimized. The Product Owner is accountable for the Product
Backlog, including its content, availability, and ordering.
Commitment: Product Goal
The commitment for the Product Backlog is the Product Goal. The Product Goal, which describes the
future state of the product and serves as a long-term goal of the Nexus.
Nexus Sprint Backlog
A Nexus Sprint Backlog is the composite of the Nexus Sprint Goal and Product Backlog items from the
Sprint Backlogs of the individual Scrum Teams. It is used to highlight dependencies and the flow of work
during the Sprint. The Nexus Sprint Backlog is updated throughout the Sprint as more is learned. It
should have enough detail that the Nexus can inspect their progress in the Nexus Daily Scrum.
Commitment: Nexus Sprint Goal
The commitment for the Nexus Sprint Backlog is the Nexus Sprint Goal. The Nexus Sprint Goal is a single
objective for the Nexus. It is the sum of all the work and Sprint Goals of the Scrum Teams within the
Nexus. It creates coherence and focus for the Nexus for the Sprint by encouraging the Scrum Teams to
work together rather than on separate initiatives. The Nexus Sprint Goal is created at the Nexus Sprint
Planning event and added to the Nexus Sprint Backlog. As Scrum Teams work during the Sprint, they
keep the Nexus Sprint Goal in mind. The Nexus should demonstrate the valuable and useful functionality
that is done to achieve the Nexus Sprint Goal at the Nexus Sprint Review in order to receive stakeholder
feedback.
Integrated Increment
The Integrated Increment represents the current sum of all integrated work completed by a Nexus
toward the Product Goal. The Integrated Increment is inspected at the Nexus Sprint Review, but may be
delivered to stakeholders before the end of the Sprint. The Integrated Increment must meet the
Definition of Done.